Namaste!
370! And, it is time for looking back at some
of the comments and opinions we have received.
Ram Kumar talked about some limitation that
seems to be existing in YouTube when adding
playlists. He wanted us to categorise them
further. Nothing of that sort caught my eye,
when I went searching. But, yes, your feedback
is taken, and we will be having sub-playlists
like Playlists That Talk About Education,
That Talk About Organisational Productivity,
etc, we will be bringing soon. Thank you!
Pram. Ramesh. A classmate from college days!
He talked about the good balance between the
chemicals. D. O. S. E. Dopamine, Oxytocin,
Serotonin, and Endorphin. He talked about
how it was such a good analogy. Yes, we gotta
thank Simon Sinek for that. It is something
that we forget sometimes. The human body is
actually a chemical factory. It creates a
lot of chemicals. It ejects a lot of toxic
chemicals. Amidst all that, the psyche, or
the mind, that intangible, amazing extraordinary
concept called the Spirit, it is indeed an
amazing miracle, a mystery.
Shine and Glow talked about the twelve traditions.
The ones from Alcoholics Anonymous. That is
what is special about it. You can find such
lists, even the Bible has the Ten Commandments,
and so on. But, an organisation like Alcoholics
Anonymous has adopted these as principles,
and from that, an organisation, any company,
any group of people working towards even a
profit motive, that was the connection I thought
was useful.
Sankaran referred to the Ten Thousand Or Twenty,
and exclaimed "This One! This Is The One"
was so good.. Just at the right time.. But,
in the past 370 presentations that I have
worked on, this is something that I have encountered
more than a couple of times, I would have
felt it at least a dozen times. A friend would
write in, all of a sudden. Your video arrived
at EXACTLY THE RIGHT TIME, like a Samaya-Sanjeevi
(reference to Hanuman bringing the Sanjeevi
herb to revive Lakshman in the Ramayana)..
And.. I take no credit for that. You would
surely remember this quote by Paulo Coelho.
If you take a firm decision, if you really
want something to happen, if you have started
channeling your full attention and energy
towards it, the universe will conspire, it
will align itself, and it will conspire to
make it work for you, he said. In exactly
the same way, probably, the time was right
for you, everything was already aligning for
you, and I was just one more person doing
the bidding of the universe, aligning my thought,
so you could go ahead with your initiative.
All the best!
Aarthi fondly remember the Definition For
Success from the 1963 Harvard Class. In fact,
Hams talked about the same thing too. How
the definition for success was so close to
the concept of Ikigai. If you remember, there
would be this line in the definition of success…
"Be Happy Privately". When I dug a little
deeper on the subject, I encountered an interesting
passage in The Holy Quran. There is this chapter
in the book, titled Al Hujurat. The prophet
talks about, Peace Be Upon Him, The Holy Prophet
talks about how to treat neighbours. Seems
there are eleven qualities. The Rights of
a Neighbour. The Rights the neighbour has
on you. It sounded even a bit extreme. One
went "Before you build an additional floor
to your building, please get the permission
of your neighbour"! This is because it might
restrict ventilation or reduce sunlight streaming
in! Ask their permission! Such a beautiful
line! Similarly, and this was the one that
kinda got me all tense, "If your neighbour
commits a sin, help him hide it"! That is
the extent to which "neighbour-concern" and
"community spirit" is being talked about.
I don't know if I have interpreted it correctly,
probably some of our viewers can help me with
that… The extent you should go to.. If your
neighbour does a mistake, even if he does
it, forgive him, help him bury it. Think about
that!
Varadarasan came over after a long hiatus.
He gave a beautiful summary of all that we
have been doing. This is exactly what we have
been doing! Without breaks, with no intent
to hurt anybody, yes, I tried to finish it
off in just one shoot/shot, and we succeeded,
and the many wonderful stuff around the world,
the books I had read, the sights I had seen,
the stories I had heard, the people I had
met, and, Tamil, I have been on this journey
of trying to get interested in Tamil, the
language and its literature, such a beautiful
language, there is so much to learn, and I
wanted to carry something over to you, something
useful, that was my wish, and movies. This
has been Quotidians. So beautifully described,
thank you Varadarasan.
Sumithra congratulated me and said, "I am
not going to use the word 'consistent', let
me say the videos were of high quality, instead".
And, Manikandan wondered, wow, you are continuing?!
Did he probably think that I wouldn't be continuing?
But…we have brought in a few changes, I
have already told you in the previous episode
that I have changed the periodicity / regularity
a bit. Pi.. பை-ய - We saw how we
were intentionally slowing down, for a reason.
Not just that. We have implemented a few more
changes too. Let us take a look at them before
we finish today's episode.
Lean Factory appreciated the many interesting
connections we brought in the InBreeding episode.
From the Ngorongoro Crater to the Habsburg
Jawline, and the importance of interaction
between teams in an organisation, he said
it was a good job. And it is important that
we all realise the critical role played by
echo chambers. The extent to which its harm
has spread, it is being talked about that
people should perhaps have two accounts on
Facebook, each contradicting the other. That
is when we will know the real news about the
world. Otherwise, Facebook will feed us what
IT WANTS TO, and not WHAT WE NEED TO. There
is a difference!
I was basking in the warm glow of having completed
365 videos in 365 days, oh, the joy of it,…
a friend pointed something out. That I had
made a mistake. That I shouldn't have done
what I did in 366. It was a good wakeup call.
Every day, doing every video, it is a new
initiative, from scratch, and I should be
careful that there should be no mistake in
it… is something I should always keep in
mind. You haven't DONE anything that ALLOWS
you to take things easy. So, they had referred
to my self-mockery of the Habsburg Jawline
in the Thumbnail for the video, and they wondered
how many people I had hurt by doing that,
I apologise in public for it, and I will be
a little more sensible and cognisant of the
sentiments of our viewers, thanks.
Shine and Glow came back and talked about
the Elevate App that I had hinted at. They
thanked me for it. There is a lot more that
I want to share with you all, about the App.
I will probably make an EPISODE about it.
I am so much in LOVE with that App. And they
also drew another parallel, we were referring
to an advertisement from IIT Delhi, something
very similar that they had come across about
B Tech candidates wanted for levelling the
gravel below the train tracks. Yes, our education
system, our examination system, has to undergo
some change, and soon!
Hams came back and she gave a long note on
Teaching versus Parenting. And, she drew some
very interesting analogies and parallels.
But, according to me, a parent is different
from a guru, a teacher. Not all parents can
be great gurus, and in fact, the opposite
also is true. Not all teachers have really
been great parents. There is even this Tamil
saying that goes "வாத்தியார்
பிள்ளை மக்கு". Some
of you may have heard of that one. So, this
requires tough love. For a parent to become
a teacher, the love, the unconditional love,
the parent has to be able to set it aside,
and behave as a teacher. Too hard, if the
parent is not able to do it. Similarly, for
a teacher, they have to learn to reprioritise
love towards the child as more important than
love towards the subject! Else, it won't be
feasible! Thank you!
Ravi told us that he has been watching this
only in recent times, and it was so interesting,
and the concept of Pi was cute too, but…
he wondered if doing it on a fixed day of
the week would have been a bit more practical.
Well, I am challenging myself. I could have
easily said, "Saturday and Sunday, every week,
I will do two episodes". But, I want to know
if I can, in spite of my other demands of
time, still generate good quality content
and keep a smart and intelligent audience
engaged. So, irrespective of the day or time,
I want to be able to generate content - is
a challenge I have set myself. Also, let us
not forget.. During these Covid times, a Thursday
is no different from a Sunday is no different
from a Monday. So, just wait for the YouTube
notification, or subscribe to my Whatsapp
Group, and enjoy the show! Thank you!
Arunkumar really did some good research, and
said, 1 to 100 - you had a static caricature
as your thumbnail, 100 to 200 - you brought
in some real-life special effect thumbnails,
200 also brought an intro theme music, and
300 onwards, we see a standing-and-delivering
pose.. Let us see what we can do for 400!
Do you have any suggestions?!
By the way, after completing 365 videos at
Quotidians, I thought I should slow down and
look back at what I have done and probably
take notes, I didn't want to repeat myself,
and wanting it to be useful for everybody,
I have transcribed the whole video.. Whatever
I talked in English, I have typed it out,
and whatever in Tamil, I have translated and
typed it out. You can visit this blog in Medium - called
bit dot ell why slash raj quote. Quotidians
from Rajendran Dandapani - would be the
title of this publication. You can read all
the articles. They would basically mirror
minute to minute, second to second, what we
have done in Quotidians.
And, the same content, I have also migrated
to YouTube. So, all videos posted from now
on, you will also have a beautiful subtitle.
In fact, a friend, sent me a kind word about
Quotidians. I immediately jumped on the opportunity
and started sending her daily videos. She
responded a while later, saying, No, I don't
understand Tamil. When she said that, I retorted
with "I actually talk only 20 to 30 percent
in Tamil, the rest of it is in English, you
can…" - and that was when she told me
that she was hearing impaired… and she depends
on the subtitles on YouTube and YouTube doesn't
do Tamil subtitles, and that's where she was
stuck. So, here is a message to her: "For
you, I have started translating and transcribing
the subtitles. Please enjoy and share your
feedback! Thank you!"
A small secret! This secret is about something
that I have discovered as a productivity trick
after 365 days of daily video.. a beautiful
productivity trick.. But, just a minute. I
think we are short of time. In the next episode
I will tell you about this productivity trick.
Thank you!